
Waitlist
========

The waitlist contains students that are unable to enroll in a section
of a course. Students choose to add themselves to the waitlist. They
are not automatically added, but choose to do so intentionally based
on the status of the course. There are two reasons for students to be
on the waitlist. The first, and primary, reason is that the class is
already at the scheduled, maximum capacity. Since there are no seats
available, the student can elect to add themselves to the waitlist.
The second reason is that the students' own schedule has a time
conflict. This occurs when they are trying to enroll in a class that
overlaps with the time of a class they are already enrolled in.



Students are moved from the waitlist to the regular section during a
daily batch process, and not in real time. The process is not in
realtime because the registrar receives many requests to increase
capacity, decrease capacity, and change rooms. If the process were
real time there would be a catastrophe of conflicts.


Students are moved from the waitlist in chronological order that they
added themselves to the waitlist. If you are still on the waitlist
there are no spaces free, the batch process has not run for the day,
or the student in question has a schedule conflict.


Faculty are not able to selectively choose students from the waitlist.



How long does the waitlist process stay active?:
The automated processing of the waitlist ends on THURSDAY morning,
August 24th.  At this time the waitlist will no longer be
processed. Students on the waitlist at that time will remain on
the waitlist, but remain there until the student decides to change
their registration. Students may not do that, because they get
assessed a change schedule fee.



Students tell me they still want to enroll after the first week of
classes.  How do they do this?

Beginning Monday, August 28th students begin to use the eAdd process
to do a late addition of the course. The request is routed to the
professor of record on an eDoc and the faculty will be notified via
email. Faculty can deny or approve based on whatever criteria they
wish to apply. If the faculty member approves, the eDoc is
electronically forwarded to the Academic Operations office and we will
approve the late add **if the room capacity** allows the addition,
otherwise we must deny the addition because of fire marshal
regulations. Many times, there are seats in a
classroom/discussion/lab, but because other students have
not *officially* dropped, enrollment is still at capacity.


After everything, a student that was unable to enroll in the class
attended all year and completed all course work as if they had
enrolled. Can the student get credit and can I give the student a
grade?

Yes. There is a provision for a late registration - contact our office
if this occurs. Students will be assessed a tuition fee at the time of
late or retroactive registration.



